RPG game synposis

Part I: Overworld/Prologue

Long ago, two kingdoms ruled the world with a tensioned truce, the Kingdom of the (insert name here) and the Kingdom of the (insert name here), having obliterated all other opposition but each other. Countless wars over the past thousand years (technically a few years short but it just sounds cooler) have been raged between the two lands over total domination of the world, and each one left the two kingdoms in a greater state of desecration than the last, ending in a total stalemate of which was so fragile that a single brave warrior could turn the tide.

The main character (only referred to as the brave one or the warrior or so on) has answered the call of their own kingdom whose king was sickly, whose queen assassinated, and whose princess was of course breathtakingly beautiful and sweet. Both the king and princess beg the warrior for help. Being infatuated with the princess, the warrior agrees, as one is aught to do.

Leading a small army, the warrior cuts a huge devastating path through the enemy, exploring through a 2d side scroller world thru various stages until the warrior reaches the enemy warlord's castle mansion. There he easily, or maybe with difficulty i havent decided yet, slays the warlord and brings his head back to their own king and princess.

Word quickly spreads throughout the victorious warrior's kingdom as the brave soul travels through the streets of a cheering crowd towards the king's castle. Upon entering the castle, they greets the king and princess and present the severed head of the warlord, and both the king and princess are elated over the warrior's victory. A blushing princess asks the king to send the guards out of the room for a quick moment and the king happily obliges, waving the honor guard off. 

The princess steps down from her seat and asks to see the warrior's damaged sword, which she suddenly impales her father with, with the weak king dying instantly. The shocked warrior can only watch and listen in horror as the princess thanks them for making her path to the throne so easy, as now that the only kingdom that could oppose her at all has been razed to the ground. She then shakes her head with a disapproving smirk at how selfish the warrior could be to assassinate the king, pointing to the warrior's protruding sword. She then calls for the guards, who shoot and brutally wound the defenseless warrior. The princess walks up to the warrior and publicly exclaims how horrified she is of the hero, and vows revenge for her father. Producing a scroll, she recites a spell that banishes the warrior to the planes of hell, where they fall, hit the lowset level, and lay motionless on the ground, bleeding to an almost certain death.

Part II: Into the Darkness

The warrior wakes up in absolute darkness, cold and still bleeding from a savage stomach wound, as well as aching from the fall and various other wounds, manages to sit up. Recollecting the events that had just previously played out, the hero swears vengance on the princess. Heating up a shard of armor with a lighter, the warrior cauterizes the stomach wound, and stands up, taking their first look at the demonic scenery around them. As the hero begins to adjust to the darkness, they are surrounded by ghosts who decide to attack the player, and the warrior (attempts to) slay the first malicious beings in the way of their quest for revenge.

At this point the game turns from a side scroller beat-the-shit-out-of-all-who-stands-before-you to a vast 2.5D world which the player can explore. The first immediate quest of the player is to find a way out of Hell, and travel back to the real world somehow. The player must first find a way out of the deep pit they are currently trapped in, which is littered with bones of the slain and fallen. Eventually they find a secluded roughly carved stairway to the surface.

After exploring around the surface of Hell, the warrior realizes that Hell is simply a vast wasteland of arbitrary size where demons, condemned human souls, revenants, undead, and monsters reside and fight each other for supremacy. Buildings, mansions, castles, dead forests, dungeons, secret areas, and nightmareish wastelands surround the player for as far as they can see, as well as huge deep ravines in the ground, leading to absolute darkness. At the center of Hell's surface is an enormous jagged mountain that stretches above the reddish sulfurous clouds overhead. The player, however, seemingly get close to the mountain at all; the closer the player gets, the farther away the mountain seems.

Eventually, after a while of wandering around, the first building the player encounters is a bar, ran by an old undead man, clearly tired of fighting. The others seem to tolerate him as he sells alcohol and food. Even in Hell, it seems, your position is ranked with money. Talking to the old man and/or doing certain side jobs for the man can reveal bits of information on how the social structures work here in Hell.

The one who rules over Hell is always the most powerful fighter that resides in Hell, and they are viewed as a god by everyone else, referred to only as the Champion. They are the only ones who can wield the Blood Reaver, a Demonic sword that can cut through anything, and can leave lacerations that will never heal, as it is rumored. Accordingly, above all else, they guard the only exit out of Hell, the doors of which has been sealed shut for all eternity. They rule from atop the mountain that can be seen by all. Their reign, however, can be challenged.

The second most powerful warrior in the realm holds an ancient compass, whose pointer always shows the true path to the top of the mountain. Without the compass, one cannot get to the mountain without getting lost, as the Hellish landscape is meant to confuse souls. The second most powerful warrior is the only one who can challenge the Champion. However, anyone can challenge the second most powerful warrior and take the compass for themselves, becoming the new second.

Knowing this, the only way to escape from Hell is to track down the second most powerful fighter and slay them, claiming the spot of the second, then traveling to the top of the mountain and killing the Champion. However, as the warrior has no intention of staying in Hell and ruling, and instead wishes to open the only doors preventing the escape of all of the demons into the living world, in order to exact revenge upon the princess they will destroy the entirety of the world and turn it into a living hell. With their infinite rage however, they are bent upon traversing back to the living world and are determined to challenge the princess, no matter what happens to anyone or anything else.

The player can freely explore the surface of Hell and its various dungeons and puzzles in search of the compass. Upon exploring areas, they can uncover clues and hints about the whereabouts of the Second, as well as the history of Hell. Being a living thing with flesh and blood, monsters and demons are hungry for the player's blood, and souls are itching to possess a new body, making your journey especially difficult should the player choose to try and fight. The more monsters the player slaughters the more hallucinations and terrifying visions the player will have, slowly driving them insane and poisoning their thoughts and actions. Upon either slaying or finding the previous Second dead and picking up the compass, these horrifying visions only get worse, and the player is marked as a target for all of Hell as the hero attempts to travel up the mountain and challenge the Champion.

(I also plan on making special secret areas and Easter eggs and references from other games, mediums, comics, manga, anime, and contemporary culture. Among which that is planned is a room which a severed bunny head on a stake, Sans's Mansion, dungeons, and more.)

Upon reaching the base of the mountain, the player reaches a large shrine through which the path leading into the forest in front of the mountain is located. The player can explore the shrine, during which the player will no longer encounter visions, but there is only one exit leading into the forest which is the only thing blocking the path up the mountain. There, the ghost of a monk floats before the player and asks the player to choose between revenge and peace, noting that the player can experience tranquility if they stay in this shrine, and watch over it, becoming the new monk, as well as preserving the peace and balance of the living world. If the player has slain too many, they must refuse, and the monk wishes them luck as they enter the forest.

The forest itself is a large puzzle, and players must follow a specific secquence of paths in order to exit on the other side leading up the mountain. If a player makes an incorrect decision on the path, the player ends up where they started and must traverse a DIFFERENT sequence in order to exit. The longer the player spends in the forest, the more undead, condemned souls, and renevants materialize to torment the player, making speed of the essence in solving the correct sequence, which is not helped by all of the confusing symbols, scratch marks, crop circles, and sinister trees that are in the forest.

If the player reaches the other side of the forest, the long, treacherous path up the mountain awaits the player as they travel up to meet the Champion. Upon reaching the peak of the mountain, the hero steps onto a stone bridge, on the other side of which is the current Champion, a cyborg with a cartoonish teddy bear for a head, made terrifying by promanent marks of battle damage, bandages, and two swords that look like a mix of massive cleavers and a katana blade. After defeating the Champion and retrieving the Blood Reaver, the player, in their last bit of sanity, asks for the cyborg's name, revealing it as Jinno. on closer inspection of the cyborg, the bandages are actually numbered headbands. Approaching the gates of Hell, the player is confronted with one last decision to either rule Hell as the Champion, or traverse to the real world and track down the princess.

Part III: A Living Hell

If the player chooses to open the gates of Hell using the sword, the player finds themselves in the real world, as a horde of demons, hailing the player as the Champion, invade the world. The player can explore the real world, now turned desolate which the surmounting invasion of the demons and monsters from hell.

Upon reaching the princess's castle and slaughtering the remaining guards, the warrior finds the princess gaunt, thin, and dead on the throne, already starting to decay into a pile of bones, concluding the game in its final ending choice.


Ending 1: The player ultimately decides to pass away peacefully in the shrine as the next monk. eventually as time passes by, as the new monk is cleaning the shrine, they encounter the princess, who died due to an assassination and found herself in Hell. The player can choose whether or not to forgive her, and let her stay in the shrine, or banish her to the outside Hell.

Ending 2: Upon becoming the new champion, the player resides on top of the mountain, bored out of their mind as the new ruler of Hell. Eventually, the next challenger arrives, and it turns out it is the warlord whom the player slain long ago. Either the player dies and the title of Champion is passed on to the warlord, or the player keeps the title of Champion, which aint bad cuz succubi.

Ending 3: The player opens the gates travels back to the world only to encounter the princess dead on her throne, meaning that the player can never truly exact revenge as they no longer have any way of getting back into Hell as they are a living body and was unnaturally banished before. They have no choice but to wander the desolate landscape until they die.

Ending 4: The player dies a terrible death trying to do any of the above.

DecapitatedBunny